Christian Buschbeck, BSc thesis: Identifying Coexistence Mechanisms from time series data

**Abstract**: In ecology, coexistence mechanisms play a major part in explaining the maintenance of biodiversity. Many previous studies have examined the different mechanisms and their properties with the help of analytical models and simulations. While these studies concentrate on understanding one mechanism in detail, here the focus lays on the distinction between different mechanisms. The idea is to identify every one of them by looking at their times series data. Hence, time series were created, with a time discrete two species model. Then I suggest two different approaches to distinguish the mechanisms based on characteristic patterns that occur in the simulated population dynamics. For the differentiation, I introduce five assessment tools that quantify the observed patterns. The validation of this differentiation showed that it is possible, to significantly distinguish the mechanisms for fixed parameters. The combinations of coexistence mechanisms could be identified less significantly and not for all combinations. For alternating parameters, the significance was reduced as well. Even though, the assessment tools might still find use in indicating coexistence mechanisms and should be tested on field data. Further research needs to be done to examine the combinations of coexistence mechanisms.

Thesis available [here](http://www.biom.uni-freiburg.de/lehre/identifying-coexistence-mechanisms-from-time-series-data-3.pdf)
